Hi, my name is Aaron Brown.
I'll be your instructor for the lesson on blockchain privacy.
Before we get started,
I'd like to quickly introduce myself.
I'm the chief scientist at Madhive.
Madhive is an ad tech company based in New York City.
Ad tech for those who are not familiar
is the science and infrastructural side of advertising.
So, we work with things like really large datasets,
machine-learning and high performance computing.
All this to make sure that billions of advertisements gets shown to the right people,
on the right device, at the right time every day.
Ad tech has some pretty difficult problems to be solved.
The first of which is a real lack of standards.
It takes a surprisingly large number of companies to get one ad onto your screen.
Without standards it's really difficult to get consensus about what happened to an ad.
With so many companies involved that leads to a lot of confusion about data
and businesses suffer because of all that time they
spend reconciling data that costs money.
We the consumer suffer because when the data is not right,
you're probably getting shown a lot of ads that aren't
interesting to you, and that's annoying.
At the other end of the spectrum are companies that do a really,
really good job of organizing all the data about you.
They literally track your every move and know everything about you.
That's dangerous because most consumers
don't realize the degree to which they're being tracked,
and this data set is vulnerable to hacking and other kinds of exploitation.
What ad tech needs is just basic accounting standards.
Proving that data hasn't been changed and it's still valid.
Cryptography is perfect for that,
and privacy plays a huge role in making this possible.
True privacy while maintaining certainty
and data wouldn't have been possible for blockchain.
So, that makes privacy the killer app for
blockchain and at Madhive we're super excited to be a big part of that.
Not only does this allow companies to collaborate together with
their data without anyone losing control and without anyone diluting its value,
privacy allows them to advertise effectively while
keeping consumers information 100 percent secure.
I'll teach you some of the techniques we use here at Madhive.
One of the things that's really exciting about working at
Madhive is how much we've been able to contribute back to the development of blockchains.
We were the first big company in ad tech to get involved
seriously by building cool stuff and solving problems for everyone's benefit.
These same ideas extend way beyond ad tech and
really help everybody working on the blockchain no matter what industry.
Privacy is one of those big problems that needed
a solution before companies could do real advertising
or really any kind of
large-scale collaborative work on a decentralized blockchain network.
We're proud to be a privacy first company
and leaders in defending data privacy for everyone.
It's been really exciting to watch this technology grow
up and working with Udacity we hope to
help train and bring more talented engineers to this space and we're still discovering.
Blockchain and privacy are definitely areas where
there are so many exciting and difficult problems to solve.
Coming up, I'll introduce the core concepts we'll go over in this lesson.
Then we'll jump in, get started with this lesson on blockchain and privacy.